World. the BBC reports that Spanish PM Sánchez loses key housing crisis vote after eviction of woman, 87. The defeat raises pressure on Sánchez to call a snap election, after a series of scandals affecting his party and allies. Published October 2, 2026. the BBC reports that Intensified Russian strikes are tearing Kyiv apart, warns mayor. Vitaliy Klitschko says Ukraine's capital is in a "very dramatic situation" as Russia is hits critical infrastructure. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that Spain’s parliament rejects gov’t housing decrees amid mass protests. Both decrees to tackle housing affordability crisis shot down as critics say measures would tighten the housing market. Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that More celebrities are embracing grey hair. For other women, it can come at a cost. Olivia Colman and Lisa Bonet are among the stars going silver. but workplace ageism means many women still fear ditching the dye To dye, or not to dye. That is the decision many people, particularly women, face when their hair starts to grey. This week Olivia Colman joined the growing ranks of women embracing grey hair and ditching the dye. Appearing at Zurich film festival, Colman had swapped her dark signature pixie cut for a grey, curly mane swept to one side. Continue reading. Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that ‘The enemy is tearing our city apart’: terror in Kyiv as Russia ramps up attacks. Mayor Vitali Klitschko says Kyivans can no longer pretend it is ‘peacetime’ amid strikes on school, hospital and bridge Europe live. latest updates Valeriya Tkachenko was dropping her son off at school in central Kyiv when the air raid alert sounded. Staff hurried the children and parents into the shelter, where the frightened lawyer spent the next two hours with her son. “I’m scared to death all day about what could happen to my son,” she said as she emerged from the shelter, already late for work. Continue reading. Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that India’s Cockroach movement launches new protests over changes to voter roll. Thousands gather in Mumbai with heavy police presence as concerns mount that millions will be denied voting rights India’s youth-led Cockroach movement kicked off more nationwide protests on Friday as thousands of people gathered in Mumbai, amid mounting concerns that millions of citizens are being unfairly stripped of their vote. The movement, which calls itself the Cockroach Janta party (CJP) and has massive support among the country’s gen Zs, returned to the streets to demand the resignation of the chief election commissioner, Gyanesh Kumar. Continue reading. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Cloaked in anonymity, Israeli soldiers describe mass civilian killings in 'NAZA'. NAZA is an acronym for nezek agavi, Hebrew for "collateral damage." It refers to the number of civilian casualties the Israeli military deems acceptable. The documentary is made by Israeli filmmakers. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that Trump vs Europe as US presses for release of emergency diesel stocks. Europe's leaders are mulling proposals to respond to Trump's diesel demands. Published October 2, 2026. The claims in this desk are the publisher's.
