Science. the National Science Foundation reports that MPS Chemistry Quarterly Office Hours. Nov 13 2026 3:00PM to Nov 13 2026 4:00PM EST The U.S. National Science Foundation Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences (NSF MPS) supports multiple research programs in chemistry. These programs support a national research community engaged in fundamental discovery, invention and innovation in the chemical sciences. NSF MPS holds quarterly office hours to share information with chemistry researchers, administrators and others in the U.S. chemistry research community. MPS leaders and staff will discuss funding … More at https://www.nsf.gov/events/mps-chemistry-quarterly-office-hours Published November 13, 2026. the National Science Foundation reports that NSF MPS Mathematical Sciences Informational Webinar. Oct 7 2026 2:00PM to Oct 7 2026 3:00PM EDT The U.S. National Science Foundation Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences (NSF MPS) supports multiple research programs at the frontiers of discovery in theoretical and applied mathematical sciences. NSF MPS will host an informational webinar for the U.S. mathematical sciences research community. All members of the mathematics research community are encouraged to attend. MPS leaders and staff will discuss NSF funding opportunities supporting the mathematical … More at https://www.nsf.gov/events/nsf-mps-mathematical-sciences-informational-webinar Published October 7, 2026. Phys.org reports that Astronauts arrive at International Space Station on the quickest US express flight yet. Four astronauts pulled up at the International Space Station on Thursday after launching on an eight-hour express that set a U.S. speed record. Published October 2, 2026. Nature reports that How to respond to hate speech without fuelling it further. Published October 2, 2026. Nature reports that Stunning fossil shows dinosaurs' distinctive path to flight. Published October 2, 2026. Nature reports that Von Neumann’s party. Published October 2, 2026. Nature reports that Can we have class outside? Seven tips to breeze through outdoor lectures. Published October 2, 2026. the National Institute of Standards and Technology reports that 2026 NIST Photometry Short Course. The NIST Photometry Short Course is a 4-day course held at NIST Gaithersburg, Maryland. The course consists of lectures given by NIST scientists and hands-on laboratory experience measuring illuminance, total luminous flux, colorimetry, and luminous Published November 3, 2026. Phys.org reports that Survey finds burnout is top challenge for independent local news publishers. More than 55% of publishers of independent local news organizations cite burnout as a concern, and about 52% view balancing journalism with business operations as one of their most pressing challenges, a new survey finds. Published October 2, 2026.
