Universities. The Guardian reports that Hochul to address Cornell University case after appointing Leticia James to investigate alleged gang-rape – US politics live. Kathy Hochul says she no longer trusts the local district attorney’s ability to handle the case, which has restarted a national conversation about sexual assault on college campuses Sign up for the Breaking News US email Donald Trump will begin his day in Washington after spending Thursday campaigning in Durant, Oklahoma. He’ll travel to Mobile, Alabama at 12.30pm ET today for a campaign rally. It’s part of the president’s 32-day blitz to juice support for Republicans ahead of the November midterm elections. He won Mobile county by almost 17 points in the 2024 presidential election. Despite the president initially saying that he would focus his attention on competitive districts, in recent d Published October 2, 2026. the BBC reports that Cornell students gather to voice anger over alleged gang rape. Students tell the BBC that the tension on campus has become palpable since allegations from 2024 resurfaced. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that New York governor names AG as special prosecutor in alleged rape case at Cornell. New York's governor has appointed New York Attorney General Letitia James as a special prosecutor in the case of a Cornell University student alleging she was sexually assaulted at a fraternity house. Published October 2, 2026. MIT News reports that 3 Questions: A new resource to empower young entrepreneurs. Martin Trust Center Managing Director Bill Aulet introduces Dear Dreamer, a free platform for middle and high school students who want to learn about entrepreneurship. Published October 2, 2026. MIT News reports that MIT class project turns into an FDA-cleared treatment for tremors. Wristband device from Encora Therapeutics started as a project in 2.009, MIT’s iconic product-design class. Published October 2, 2026. the Harvard Gazette reports that Digital life doesn’t have to be this way. Writer, activist Cory Doctorow wants you to be mad about tech monopoly — but not blindly terrified of AI Published October 1, 2026.
