World. ABC News Australia reports that 'It breaks you': Friend of stabbed pilot speaks out. A pilot and close friend of the Indian flydubai captain who was attacked during a flight to Israel recalls his shock upon first seeing footage of the incident online. ABC News Australia reports that Labor's working holiday visa policy risks regional seats, experts say. Political experts say the immigration policy changes put Labor's regional MPs in a tight spot to represent their community and defend their party. Al Jazeera reports that Flydubai pilot recounts cockpit stabbing in call with Indian PM Modi. Smit Machchhar recalls midair disaster after co-pilot's attack on Flydubai flight to Tel Aviv. ABC News Australia reports that Complaint over senior NT public servant who ran private NDIS provider. A senior staffer with the Northern Territory's Department of Children and Families in Central Australia spent almost three years as the sole director of a private NDIS provider in Alice Springs. ABC News Australia reports that Violent protests in France over conditions in high schools. French students and police have accused each other of violence as protests continue over conditions in education. Al Jazeera reports that Why Carney’s economic overhaul is clashing with Canada’s unions. Unions say proposed changes to Canada's labour laws could weaken workers’ right to strike. Al Jazeera reports that Police bodycam shows Luigi Mangione arrest at Pennsylvania McDonald’s. Newly released bodycam footage shows police arresting and searching Luigi Mangione at a McDonald’s in Altoona in 2024. the Japan Times reports that North Korea fired off apparent ballistic missile amid landmine row with South. The launch comes after a landmine explosion injured three South Korean soldiers in the Demilitarized Zone last month. Al Jazeera reports that Israel could’ve ended Gaza war, freed captives sooner: Israel ex-negotiator. Retired General Nitzan Alon says more captives could have returned alive and a deal was possible 'maybe a year earlier'. NPR reports that As Trump's proposed arch looms over D.C., protesters pin their hopes on the midterms. Democratic lawmakers, veterans and concerned citizens gathered in Memorial Circle to protest the arch Trump wants to build there. Their hopes lie primarily in a lawsuit and next month's midterms. ABC News Australia reports that Fishers warn snapper, kingfish prices could soar under proposed catch limits. Fishers and seafood retailers say proposed NSW limits designed to rebuild snapper and yellowtail kingfish stocks will send prices soaring. Al Jazeera reports that Bosnia’s elections explained. Bosnia and Herzegovina votes on October 4 in an election that may determine whether it breaks its political deadlock. ABC News Australia reports that One Nation makes election promise to revive Victoria's timber sector. One Nation has promised to resume native timber logging in Victoria if it wins the state election, but the party would not say if it has costed the policy. Al Jazeera reports that Israeli general: Gaza captives could have been freed a year earlier. Israeli Gen. Nitzan Alon told a Washington Institute forum that all Gaza captives could've been freed a year earlier. The claims in this desk are the publisher's.
