World. NPR reports that Cloaked in anonymity, Israeli soldiers describe mass civilian killings in 'NAZA'. NAZA is an acronym for nezek agavi, Hebrew for "collateral damage." It refers to the number of civilian casualties the Israeli military deems acceptable. The documentary is made by Israeli filmmakers. Published October 2, 2026. ABC News Australia reports that Nepal plans to drain four glacial lakes after flooding disaster. August's deadly flooding event in Nepal has triggered plans to drain four glacial lakes which could take up to six years. Published October 2, 2026. Deutsche Welle reports that Argentina launches cash-for-citizenship scheme. Investors seeking the fastest but most costly route to Argentine citizenship can choose between a non-refundable gift of $350,000, or buying a government bond for $800,000, if they think that will pay off in the end. Published October 2, 2026. ABC News Australia reports that Detailed plan led to murder of Hong Kong model Abby Choi, court hears. Hong Kong influencer, Abby Choi's, ex-husband and in-laws have pleaded not guilty to her murder, after police made a grim discovery at a suburban home in 2023. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that G7 announces oil reserve release, as Trump hails Europe diesel deal. Macron says G7 will release 100 million barrels over four months; diesel release to be 'frontloaded' Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that Fires, fury and hundreds of arrests as France gripped by student protests. Government struggling to deal with worst crisis in months after being taken by surprise by massive demonstrations Europe live. latest updates As dozens of school pupils sat on top of a pile of wheelie bins blocking a high school entrance in north-eastern Paris, Sophia, 17, was on the frontline of the barricade, when she would normally have been attending Spanish class. “We hope this grows into a massive youth protest movement,” said the final-year baccalaureate student at Paris’s Lycée Voltaire, who did not want her real name published. She was on her second day of blocking the school entrance along with hundreds of others, ensuring all lessons were cancelled. “We just want to be listened t Published October 2, 2026. the BBC reports that I've seen nearly 500 executions - but never one like Christa Pike's. Texas reporter Michael Graczyk has seen botched executions in his time, but not one in which an inmate survived. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that The United States added only 29,000 jobs in September as job market lacks spark. United States employers added 29,000 jobs in September as the unemployment rate inched up to 4.2 percent. Job gains for July and August were revised down by a total of 60,000 jobs, extending a lackluster run for the job market. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that Ethiopia, Eritrea break ties: Does the conflict risk becoming regional war. Analysts warn unrest is likely to spill into neighbouring states and could further destabilise war-torn Sudan. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that What’s behind France’s school protests. Many French schools are still closed as protests over learning conditions continue across the country. Published October 2, 2026.
