World. The Guardian reports that Several people injured after vehicle hits crowd in Newcastle waiting to farewell Knights team bus. Driver arrested at the scene after a vehicle struck multiple people in a crowd Get our breaking news email , free app or daily news podcast A car has crashed into a crowd of people in Newcastle injuring several as fans waited to farewell the Knights team bus before the NRL grand final New South Wales police said that emergency services were called to Newcastle Link Road at the Transfield Drive roundabout in Wallsend about 9.30am on Saturday after reports a vehicle struck multiple people in a crowd Continue reading... Al Jazeera reports that US and Australia suspend diplomatic operations in Brazil before election. Security threats prompt US and Australia to suspend diplomatic operations in Brazil before pivotal election day. The Guardian reports that Pint-sized gains: the Australian brewers crafting refreshingly sustainable beers. As the weather warms up, renewable and refillable brews can help reduce the environmental cost of a cold one Change by degrees offers life hacks and sustainable living tips each Saturday to help reduce your household’s carbon footprint Got a question or tip for reducing household emissions? Email us at changebydegrees@theguardian.com It’s no secret that Australians love getting on the beers : we consume 69m litres of the stuff every year With that comes a significant packaging and environmental footprint, as commercially produced drinks generate emissions in both production and transportation Australians drink and dispose of an estimated 17bn bottles and cans a year , fewer than half of wh the BBC reports that The South African men trying to end violence against women: 'Every man needs to play a part'. The discovery of 12 women's bodies near Johannesburg has again highlighted South Africa's problem with violence against women. Al Jazeera reports that North Korea fires ballistic missile towards the sea, South Korea says. A ballistic missile fired from the North Korean port city of Wonsan flies more than 700km, South Korea's military says. Al Jazeera reports that Dutch royal house helped slave trade to survive, study finds. In-depth study also says the royal house made huge profits from Dutch colonial policies in past centuries. The Guardian reports that ‘We want action’: Fijian climate activist sends message ahead of UN talks in Pacific. Lavenia Naivalu has seen the impact of the climate crisis first-hand and is determined to amplify Pacific voices at this year’s pre-Cop summit in Fiji From her wooden veranda in Fiji’s remote Yasawa islands, climate activist Lavenia Naivalu remembers when the reefs were once so healthy, her grandfather would walk to the shoreline and return with fish But life there has changed “The reefs that the older generation of men spearfished in, no longer provide what they once did,” the 44-year-old says “Young people … now must travel further out to sea to find fish for their families.” Continue reading... the BBC reports that Women given shorts at Oktoberfest to prevent upskirting. The step at the Munich festival comes after thousands of voyeuristic videos emerged on social media. The claims in this desk are the publisher's.
