Mainland politics. the Department of Justice reports that Final Two Defendants Sentenced in Interstate Auto Theft Conspiracy. Published October 2, 2026. the Department of Justice reports that Mequon Doctor Sentenced to Federal Prison for Unlawful Prescribing. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that San Francisco's car crime has plunged. How much credit does Flock deserve. San Francisco leaders say AI-powered cameras helped drive a dramatic decline in car crime. We examine the evidence. and whether the city can keep its high-tech dragnet without sacrificing civil liberties. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Failed 'torturous' execution attempt on Christa Pike reignites death penalty debate. The botched execution in Tennessee of Christa Pike, who survived despite being subject to two doses of lethal injection on Wednesday, has reignited furious debate about the death penalty in the United States Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Who uttered the phrase 'the ideological clowns are out' this week? The quiz knows. Plus, how well do you know your pandas and fat bears? Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that He was banned by betting sites, and filed for bankruptcy. Then he relapsed on Kalshi. The dark side of the prediction market boom is becoming more clear: Experts say the sites have become go-to outlets for gambling addicts to relapse as the companies avoid state consumer protections. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that The United States Senate is up for grabs. Can this Ohio Democrat win back working class votes. After 32 years in Congress, Ohio's Sherrod Brown lost his Senate seat in 2024 as many working class voters turned out for Trump. Now Brown is counting on union voters to send him back to Washington. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Morning news brief. September jobs report to give an update on the market, Tennessee governor halts executions after woman survives attempt, N.Y. attorney general appointed as special prosecutor in Cornell rape case. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Car crimes in San Francisco have dropped. The city says Flock cameras have helped. Car crimes have plunged in San Francisco over the last four years. The city credits, in part, Flock cameras. We investigate the claim. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Some school districts switch to electric buses as diesel prices soar. School districts that drive long distances are navigating record high diesel prices in different ways. Some have transitioned to electric or propane buses to ease the pinch. Published October 2, 2026. the Federal Register reports that Antidumping or Countervailing Duty Order, Finding, or Suspended Investigation; Opportunity To Request Administrative Review and Join Annual Inquiry Service List; Note Regarding Format of Review Requests. Published October 2, 2026. The claims in this desk are the publisher's.
