World. Al Jazeera reports that Ethiopian gov’t-aligned group claims close to full control of Tigray region. Claim comes as violence flares across northern Ethiopia, deteriorating diplomatic, humanitarian situations. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that Tunisia softens its ‘false news’ penalty. What really changed, and why now. Fines replace jail terms for first-time 'false news' offences under a decree rights groups say is still repressive. Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that Does Philadelphia’s ‘house of horrors’ hold the key to seven missing women. City on edge as police comb home of Raymond Horsch, pornographer who died last year, in grisly case involving disturbing pictures and film A dilapidated house, burned out above the second story, may hold clues to dark tales and. potentially. the darkest of endings as the FBI and police in Philadelphia try to unpick what took place at 417 West Chew Avenue for more than three decades. Last week, homicide investigators shifted their focus from examining an archive of a million photographs and film recovered from what is known locally as the “house of horrors” to excavating what is in or under the home of Raymond “RC” Horsch, a career criminal, local artist, author and snuff photographer who d Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that ‘It’s radical to release a film called Girls Like Girls in this climate’: hitmaker turned director Hayley Kiyoko on sexuality, safety and becoming ‘Lesbian Jesus’. The singer’s hit 2015 single Girls Like Girls was her breakthrough moment and also the first time she felt confident in her sexuality. Now she has directed a film based on the song. a love letter to her 17-year-old self A lot of Hayley Kiyoko’s teenage summers were spent waiting, bored and pining, as she sat at the computer willing her crush to message her back on AOL instant messenger. Like Coley, the 17-year-old protagonist of Girls Like Girls, the film the pop star has co-written and directed, Kiyoko fell hard for a girl who “put me through my own heartbreak and haunted me for a long time”, she says. Although the 35-year-old singer became known by fans as “lesbian Jesus” following the re Published October 2, 2026. the United Nations reports that ‘I have not lost my dreams’: Refugee education funding cuts threaten millions. A teenage girl who fled war-torn Sudan for neighbouring Egypt and hopes to pursue a technology degree is an example of why countries must ensure that young refugees can continue to learn. Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that Over 560 schools disrupted in France on Friday as protests escalate into ‘urban violence’. Europe live. Dozens of schools have been damaged and nearly 3,000 teenagers have been detained since the start of the tensions Back to France, midday figures quoted by Le Figaro show that 564 schools and educational establishments have been disrupted by the ongoing unrest, and some 600 people have been arrested so far today as the high school protests continue. Europe environment correspondent Continue reading. Published October 2, 2026.
