Universities. The Guardian reports that Woman in alleged Cornell gang-rape case was ‘failed’ by system, New York governor says. Kathy Hochul briefs journalists with state attorney general Letitia James, who will be taking over the entire case Letitia James appointed special prosecutor in alleged gang-rape at Cornell Kathy Hochul, New York’s governor, said on Friday that she would “ensure” that all the facts of the alleged gang-rape in a fraternity house at Cornell University “are brought into light” while harshly criticizing the institution for how they handled the 2024 case. Hochul, a Democrat, said the woman in the case, was “failed” by people obligated to protect her, including the police and the county prosecutor. Continue reading. Published October 2, 2026. MIT News reports that The next generation’s guide to the new space economy. An industry report published by students in an MIT aerospace entrepreneurship class lays out guidance for aspiring space leaders and investors. Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that Hochul to address Cornell University case after appointing Leticia James to investigate alleged gang-rape. US politics live. Kathy Hochul says she no longer trusts the local district attorney’s ability to handle the case, which has restarted a national conversation about sexual assault on college campuses Sign up for the Breaking News US email Donald Trump will begin his day in Washington after spending Thursday campaigning in Durant, Oklahoma. He’ll travel to Mobile, Alabama at 12.30pm ET today for a campaign rally. It’s part of the president’s 32-day blitz to juice support for Republicans ahead of the November midterm elections. He won Mobile county by almost 17 points in the 2024 presidential election. Despite the president initially saying that he would focus his attention on competitive districts, in recent d Published October 2, 2026. the BBC reports that Cornell students gather to voice anger over alleged gang rape. Students tell the BBC that the tension on campus has become palpable since allegations from 2024 resurfaced. Published October 2, 2026.
