Mainland politics. the Department of Justice reports that FY27 Q4 Report Due. the Department of Justice reports that FY27 Q3 Report Due. the Department of Justice reports that FY27 Q2 Report Due. the Department of Justice reports that Agency Chief FOIA Officer Reports Due on Agency Websites. the Department of Justice reports that Agency Annual FOIA Reports Due on Agency Websites. the Department of Justice reports that Small Volume Agency Chief FOIA Officer Reports Due. the Department of Justice reports that FY27 Q1 Report Due. the Department of Justice reports that Agency Chief FOIA Officer Reports Due. the Department of Justice reports that Agency Chief FOIA Officer Report Training. the Department of Justice reports that Agency Annual FOIA Reports Due. the Department of Justice reports that FY26 Q4 Data Due. the Department of Justice reports that Agency Raw Data Validation Training. the Department of Justice reports that Agency Annual Report Training. the White House reports that National Manufacturing Day, 2026. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION For 250 years, American workers have been the driving force behind our Nation’s strength, prosperity, and industrial might. Their skill, ingenuity, and determination have fueled our economy and carried American manufacturing to new heights. On National Manufacturing Day, we honor the men and women […] The post National Manufacturing Day, 2026 appeared first on The White House. NPR reports that Pro-Trump Influencer Benny Johnson is being sued for defamation by ICE protesters. The lawsuit says the prominent conservative podcaster falsely claimed the protesters were assaulting ICE officers during demonstrations at an ICE facility in Illinois last year. the White House reports that Presidential Message on National Cybersecurity Awareness Month. In an age of rapid digital advancement, cyberspace has emerged as the new frontier of American innovation, prosperity, and strength. As new technologies open doors to discovery and opportunity that were once unimaginable, a secure cyberspace is essential to ensuring that America continues to lead the world in finance, military power, emerging technology, and manufacturing. […] The post Presidential Message on National Cybersecurity Awareness Month appeared first on The White House. the White House reports that Presidential Message on National Domestic Violence Awareness Month. In communities across our great Nation, domestic violence destroys families, harms innocent children, and leaves lasting pain in our neighborhoods. For America to be strong, children must feel safe in their homes, spouses and significant others must be respected, and it must be a universal truth that violence in any form is unacceptable. This National […] The post Presidential Message on National Domestic Violence Awareness Month appeared first on The White House. The claims in this desk are the publisher's.
