Tech and chips. GitHub reports that Confidential comments on repository security advisories. You can now post confidential comments on repository security advisories. Confidential comments are visible only to people with write access to the repository, so you can discuss a report with… The post Confidential comments on repository security advisories appeared first on The GitHub Blog . Published October 2, 2026. NVIDIA reports that NVIDIA DGX Spark 64GB Gives Developers More Ways to Build and Scale Local AI. Local AI is becoming more useful by the token. As AI agents move from experiments into everyday development, increasingly capable open models are shrinking to fit on more devices, giving builders more to run locally. Coming this month, NVIDIA DGX Spark will be available with 64GB of unified memory from top manufacturer partners — Acer, […] Published October 2, 2026. Cloudflare reports that 8 major updates to Cloudflare Observability. Cloudflare is launching eight major updates that bring logs, traces, analytics, alerts, dashboards, querying, and telemetry export into one observability platform, with simpler and more predictable pricing. Published October 2, 2026. the BBC reports that OpenAI fires workers for 'mishandling sensitive information'. The former employees were investigated for sharing data with an outside AI evaluation group. Published October 2, 2026. ABC News Australia reports that Rogue OpenAI agent accessed second NSW government website. The rogue AI agent entered a National Parks and Wildlife Service web application containing publicly available historical information and data on fires. Published October 2, 2026. NVIDIA reports that How NVIDIA GPUs Help Accelerate OpenAI’s GPT-6 Astra Ultrafast. GPT-6 Astra Ultrafast, running on NVIDIA Blackwell GPUs, is available now in the OpenAI API and to eligible ChatGPT Work and Codex users. Accelerated by inference optimizations through OpenAI’s models that tap into the capabilities of the NVIDIA Blackwell architecture, Ultrafast offers up to 8x faster token generation than the Astra Standard mode. For developers, […] Published October 1, 2026. Cloudflare reports that Introducing Web Search API via AI Gateway. Cloudflare AI Gateway now supports native web search API integration in partnership with Ceramic.ai, Exa, and Linkup. Developers can now inject real-time web context into model inference calls via AI Gateway, REST APIs, or Workers bindings. Published October 2, 2026. Cloudflare reports that Introducing Cloudflare Traces: follow requests through our entire platform. Cloudflare Traces shows how a request moves through security rules, transformations, cache, routing, Workers, and your origin, then follows it across services running anywhere in your stack. Published October 2, 2026.
