Science. the National Science Foundation reports that MPS Chemistry Quarterly Office Hours. Nov 13 2026 three p.m. to Nov 13 2026 four p.m. EST The United States National Science Foundation Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences (NSF MPS) supports multiple research programs in chemistry. These programs support a national research community engaged in fundamental discovery, invention and innovation in the chemical sciences. NSF MPS holds quarterly office hours to share information with chemistry researchers, administrators and others in the United States chemistry research community. MPS leaders and staff will discuss funding … More at https:,, www.nsf.gov, events, mps-chemistry-quarterly-office-hours Published November 13, 2026. the National Science Foundation reports that NSF MPS Mathematical Sciences Informational Webinar. Oct 7 2026 two p.m. to Oct 7 2026 three p.m. EDT The United States National Science Foundation Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences (NSF MPS) supports multiple research programs at the frontiers of discovery in theoretical and applied mathematical sciences. NSF MPS will host an informational webinar for the United States mathematical sciences research community. All members of the mathematics research community are encouraged to attend. MPS leaders and staff will discuss NSF funding opportunities supporting the mathematical … More at https:,, www.nsf.gov, events, nsf-mps-mathematical-sciences-informational-webinar Published October 7, 2026. Phys.org reports that American beech trees may carry genetic resistance to deadly leaf disease. A study led by scientists at the Holden Arboretum has found evidence that beech leaf disease (BLD) symptom development is genetically controlled, providing the first evidence that some American beech trees may have genetic resistance. This finding supports further investigation and development of breeding populations for BLD resistance. Nearly a third of beech trees near BLD's epicenter in northeastern Ohio, the majority of which were smaller trees, have died since the disease was discovered in 2012. Published October 2, 2026. Phys.org reports that Astronauts arrive at International Space Station on the quickest US express flight yet. Four astronauts pulled up at the International Space Station on Thursday after launching on an eight-hour express that set a United States speed record. Published October 2, 2026. Science reports that Six biology breakthroughs that should have won a Nobel Prize—but didn’t. Major discoveries, including the role of DNA, the biological basis of psychology, and the human genome, missed out on science’s top recognition Published October 2, 2026. Science reports that Canada commits $1.2 billion to protect oceans while pushing ahead with pipeline. Scientists welcome new money but remain cautious about weakening environmental protections Published October 2, 2026.
