Universities. MIT News reports that Met Warehouse dedication ceremony launches new era. Once a storage castle, now a design stronghold, the landmark building is a major new hub at MIT. MIT News reports that MIT releases financials and endowment figures for 2026. The Institute’s pooled investments returned 10.3 percent last year; endowment stands at $29.2 billion. MIT News reports that Computational tools for society’s most complex challenges. Associate Professor Cathy Wu uses reinforcement learning to help map out improvements to transportation and other multifaceted systems. UC Berkeley reports that Tribal members saw pinyon-juniper woodlands declining. A new study confirms it.. A collaborative, three-year project involving tribal nations, federal agencies, volunteers, and university researchers is informing stewardship of culturally important ecosystems across the Eastern Sierra The post Tribal members saw pinyon-juniper woodlands declining A new study confirms it appeared first on Berkeley News . UC Berkeley reports that To decipher local laws, researchers used AI to build a database of millions of them. The unprecedented project gives policymakers and the public an easy way to look up local ordinances and examine what works — or does not The post To decipher local laws, researchers used AI to build a database of millions of them appeared first on Berkeley News . MIT News reports that Documenting the tech worker movement. Writing as a participant and researcher, PhD student JS Tan SM ’22 has co-authored a new book about the rise of tech worker protests and the employer backlash that followed. MIT News reports that The next generation’s guide to the new space economy. An industry report published by students in an MIT aerospace entrepreneurship class lays out guidance for aspiring space leaders and investors. Phys.org reports that Why a food poisoning bacterium can cause severe wound infections. The toxin NheABC, produced by Bacillus cereus, is particularly active in the pH conditions found in open wounds Researchers at Umeå University found that the toxin damages both cell membranes and mitochondria and helps the bacterium establish infection in wounded tissue.
