Science. the National Science Foundation reports that MPS Chemistry Quarterly Office Hours. Nov 13 2026 three p.m. to Nov 13 2026 four p.m. EST The U.S National Science Foundation Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences (NSF MPS) supports multiple research programs in chemistry These programs support a national research community engaged in fundamental discovery, invention and innovation in the chemical sciences NSF MPS holds quarterly office hours to share information with chemistry researchers, administrators and others in the U.S chemistry research community MPS leaders and staff will discuss funding … More at https:,, www.nsf.gov, events, mps-chemistry-quarterly-office-hours the National Science Foundation reports that NSF MPS Mathematical Sciences Informational Webinar. Oct 7 2026 two p.m. to Oct 7 2026 three p.m. EDT The U.S National Science Foundation Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences (NSF MPS) supports multiple research programs at the frontiers of discovery in theoretical and applied mathematical sciences NSF MPS will host an informational webinar for the U.S mathematical sciences research community All members of the mathematics research community are encouraged to attend MPS leaders and staff will discuss NSF funding opportunities supporting the mathematical … More at https:,, www.nsf.gov, events, nsf-mps-mathematical-sciences-informational-webinar the National Institute of Standards and Technology reports that 2026 NIST Photometry Short Course. The NIST Photometry Short Course is a 4-day course held at NIST Gaithersburg, Maryland The course consists of lectures given by NIST scientists and hands-on laboratory experience measuring illuminance, total luminous flux, colorimetry, and luminous the National Science Foundation reports that NSF Growing Convergence Research Lecture: Knowledge Systems Decomposition and Integration in Transdisciplinary Convergence. Oct 29 2026 three p.m. to Oct 29 2026 four p.m. EDT Knowledge Systems Decomposition and Integration in Transdisciplinary Convergence Thursday, Oct 29, 2026, 3-4 p.m EDT Abstract: Knowledge systems are an integral but often invisible element of human knowledge-making and organization, especially in specialized ways of knowing that occur in scientific, professional, organizational, or community settings Transdisciplinary convergence research frequently requires unpacking and then integrating across knowledge systems, … More at https:,, www.nsf.gov, events, nsf-growing-convergence-research-lecture-knowledge-systems the National Science Foundation reports that NSF BIO Virtual Office Hour Webinar: Updates from the NSF Directorate for Biological Sciences. Dec 17 2026 one p.m. to Dec 17 2026 two p.m. EST Monthly virtual office webinars will focus on updates from the U.S National Science Foundation Directorate for Biological Sciences that may be of interest to the biological sciences research community For additional assistance with accessibility and reasonable accommodations, contact rarequest@nsf.gov or … More at https:,, www.nsf.gov, events, nsf-bio-virtual-office-hour-webinar-updates-nsf-directorate
