Universities. NPR reports that 'Disturbed' by Cornell rape investigation, New York governor puts state AG in charge. The Cornell University Police Department is leading the investigation into an alleged gang rape two years ago. How effective is that approach, and is the campus police accountable to the public? Published October 2, 2026. ABC News Australia reports that NY governor slams handling of Cornell 'gang-rape' case. Kathy Hochul says the woman who accused a group of Cornell University students of rape has been "failed" at "every turn" by authorities. Published October 2, 2026. MIT News reports that Met Warehouse dedication ceremony launches new era. Once a storage castle, now a design stronghold, the landmark building is a major new hub at MIT. Published October 2, 2026. MIT News reports that MIT releases financials and endowment figures for 2026. The Institute’s pooled investments returned 10.3 percent last year; endowment stands at $29.2 billion. Published October 2, 2026. MIT News reports that Computational tools for society’s most complex challenges. Associate Professor Cathy Wu uses reinforcement learning to help map out improvements to transportation and other multifaceted systems. Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that Cornell case raises questions about rise of ketamine in sexual assaults: ‘You might not realize you’re being touched’. After a Jane Doe claimed she was encouraged to take ketamine in an alleged gang rape, advocates are urging for tighter laws around the dissociative The effects of the drug ketamine have come into sharp focus after a former Cornell University student alleged in a lawsuit that several fraternity members gang raped her at a frat house party after she nasally ingested the drug. Ketamine is a dissociative anaesthetic consumed increasingly in the US as both an illegal party drug and legal mental health treatment. Continue reading. Published October 2, 2026. MIT News reports that The next generation’s guide to the new space economy. An industry report published by students in an MIT aerospace entrepreneurship class lays out guidance for aspiring space leaders and investors. Published October 2, 2026.
