RootRecord news update for October 2, 2026. Markets. MarketWatch reports that I’m in my 20s and keep getting laid off. Should I invest in my employer’s 401(k) or look into other options?. “I have lost faith that the traditional career spanning decades at one company even exists anymore.” Published October 2, 2026. MarketWatch reports that TV dinner overload? The frozen-food aisle may be too crowded for its own good.. Industry giant Conagra Brands has so many frozen-food items that they’re competing against each other, an analyst says. Published October 2, 2026. MarketWatch reports that Three reasons why this Wall Street market-making powerhouse says investors should reload on stocks now. September provided a reset for stocks, pointing to a good end to the year, says Scott Rubner Published October 2, 2026. MarketWatch reports that Here’s the bond-market alternative as U.S. and other developed markets debt deteriorate. Christopher Wood, of Jefferies, said Group of Seven bonds have entered a ‘structural bear market’ since March 2020. Published October 2, 2026. National security. Breaking Defense reports that In Ukraine, data centers ‘facing increased attacks’ in recent weeks: Ex-official. “Naturally, you cannot move everything underground. … So an important aspect is boosting Ukrainian anti-ballistic and anti-drone capabilities, which are already in critically short supply,” Kateryna Chernohorenko, Ukraine’s former deputy minister of defense for digital transformation, told Breaking Defense. Published October 2, 2026. Defense News reports that US Navy awards RTX’s Raytheon $24.4B for SM-6 missiles amid stockpile concerns. The deal for the SM-6 interceptors comes as the Pentagon pushes to replenish munitions stockpiles depleted by conflicts in the Middle East. Published October 1, 2026. Breaking Defense reports that DoD obligates $142B from reconciliation bill before deadline, leaving billions subject to cuts. Any funding from last year’s reconciliation bill left unspent by the Pentagon suffers an 8.3 percent cut known as sequestration as fiscal 2027 starts. Published October 1, 2026. SpaceX. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that SpaceX launches 13th long-duration astronaut crew to International Space Station. CAPE CANAVERAL, Florida >> A SpaceX rocket lifted off from Florida on Thursday with a crew of two U.S. astronauts, a Canadian astronaut and a Russian cosmonaut headed to the International Space Station for a science mission devoted to human health and performance in orbit. Published October 2, 2026. Spaceflight Now reports that Falcon Heavy flies its first mission for U.S. spy satellite agency. The 14th Falcon Heavy rocket is scheduled to blast off on a clandestine mission from Launch Complex 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center at 11:54 p.m. EDT (0354 UTC). Published October 1, 2026. NASASpaceflight reports that Falcon Heavy set to launch classified NROL-97 to high-energy orbit. SpaceX’s Falcon Heavy launched the classified NROL-97 payload for the United States National Reconnaissance Office.… The post Falcon Heavy set to launch classified NROL-97 to high-energy orbit appeared first on NASASpaceFlight.com . Published October 1, 2026. Hawaii. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that How the Hawaii and San Jose State football teams match up. SPARTANS OFFENSE Published October 2, 2026. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that Hawaii Supreme Court upholds Maui wildfire attorney fee caps. The Hawaii Supreme Court has rejected an appeal that was holding up initial payments to Maui wildfire disaster victims. Published October 2, 2026. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that 5 Questions: Judith Mills Wong, League of Women Voters of Hawaii president. What are your organization’s priorities and concerns in this election year? Published October 2, 2026. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that Scoreboard – October 2, 2026. CALENDAR TODAY BOWLING ILH girls 4:15 p.m. at Pier Side Bowling Center. FOOTBALL OIA Open Campbell at Leilehua (JV at 5:30 p.m.; varsity to follow); Mililani at Kailua (JV at 5:30 p.m.; varsity to follow).... Published October 2, 2026. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that Freshman Cameron Holcomb has been the Rainbow Wahine’s ace in the hole. RAINBOW WAHINE VOLLEYBALL Published October 2, 2026. The claims in this desk are the publisher's. Also in the news. the European Space Agency reports that A guide to blood draws in orbit. the European Space Agency reports that Earth from Space: Typhoon Surigae. Image: This false-colour, polarised image from Copernicus Sentinel-1 shows us the surface of the sea beneath the clouds, as seen by the satellite’s radar instrument. The sea conditions reflect the strong winds as Typhoon Surigae passes over. Published October 2, 2026. That is the news update.
