World. Al Jazeera reports that Why Carney’s economic overhaul is clashing with Canada’s unions. Unions say proposed changes to Canada's labour laws could weaken workers’ right to strike. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that Police bodycam shows Luigi Mangione arrest at Pennsylvania McDonald’s. Newly released bodycam footage shows police arresting and searching Luigi Mangione at a McDonald’s in Altoona in 2024. Published October 2, 2026. the Japan Times reports that North Korea fired off apparent ballistic missile amid landmine row with South. The launch comes after a landmine explosion injured three South Korean soldiers in the Demilitarized Zone last month. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that Israel could’ve ended Gaza war, freed captives sooner: Israel ex-negotiator. Retired General Nitzan Alon says more captives could have returned alive and a deal was possible 'maybe a year earlier'. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that As Trump's proposed arch looms over D.C., protesters pin their hopes on the midterms. Democratic lawmakers, veterans and concerned citizens gathered in Memorial Circle to protest the arch Trump wants to build there. Their hopes lie primarily in a lawsuit and next month's midterms. Published October 2, 2026. ABC News Australia reports that Fishers warn snapper, kingfish prices could soar under proposed catch limits. Fishers and seafood retailers say proposed NSW limits designed to rebuild snapper and yellowtail kingfish stocks will send prices soaring. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that Bosnia’s elections explained. Bosnia and Herzegovina votes on October 4 in an election that may determine whether it breaks its political deadlock. Published October 2, 2026. ABC News Australia reports that One Nation makes election promise to revive Victoria's timber sector. One Nation has promised to resume native timber logging in Victoria if it wins the state election, but the party would not say if it has costed the policy. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that Israeli general: Gaza captives could have been freed a year earlier. Israeli Gen. Nitzan Alon told a Washington Institute forum that all Gaza captives could've been freed a year earlier. Published October 2, 2026. the BBC reports that Riot police clash with students as education protests rage in France. About 735 schools have faced disruption as violent protests over standards and lack of teachers continue. Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that Brazil’s Lula says only he can stop rise of fascism under Bolsonaro’s son. President leads huge rally in Rio before election on Sunday seen as most important for decades The Brazilian president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, has claimed he is the only thing standing in the way of far-right “fascists” reclaiming power, as he led a huge rally through the streets of Rio ahead of Sunday’s crunch election. Speaking on the eve of the demonstration, the 80-year-old leftwinger said he had decided to seek a historic fourth term because he believed only he could prevent the family of his rightwing rival, Flávio Bolsonaro, returning to government. Continue reading. Published October 2, 2026. The claims in this desk are the publisher's.
