RootRecord news update for October 2, 2026. Markets. MarketWatch reports that This couple took out an adjustable-rate mortgage when rates were over 8%. Here’s how it worked out.. Adjustable-rate mortgages have made a comeback as mortgage rates surge and buyers seek relief from high housing costs. Published October 2, 2026. MarketWatch reports that ‘We lived within our means’: I earned $30,000 as a pastor and still retired comfortably. Why don’t you tell people that?. “As a country, we have grown dangerously comfortable.” Published October 2, 2026. MarketWatch reports that ‘I want to make her proud’: My mother, a divorcée, died and I’m her executor. Do I need to file for probate?. “The only debts were utility and credit-card bills, which we will pay off.” Published October 2, 2026. the BBC reports that US jobs market sees sharp slowdown ahead of midterm elections. Unemployment rose slightly as American employers paused hiring with midterm elections just a month away. Published October 2, 2026. MarketWatch reports that Tesla sold a lot more EVs than Wall Street expected, and the stock is surging. EV giant Tesla had the best three-month period for vehicle sales this year, but it was less than a year ago. Published October 2, 2026. The claims in this desk are the publisher's. National security. Defense News reports that Ukraine war fatigue fuels defense-spending downgrade plan in Italy. Italian military planners risk losing out on billions in funding as government and opposition parties seek to cut defense spending and Ukraine support. Published October 2, 2026. Breaking Defense reports that Berkowitz out at DoD Space Policy office. Gancio has a background in intelligence, most recently serving as an advisor to Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., who chairs the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Published October 2, 2026. Breaking Defense reports that The NIH-Pentagon deal isn’t a cash grab. It’s a rescue.. As global threats move faster than ever, uniting defense capability with scientific innovation is not a luxury, it’s an imperative, argues former Pentagon official David Lasseter. Published October 2, 2026. Defense News reports that Taiwan’s first two F-16V fighter jets arrive to bolster defenses against China. The first two of a batch of 66 new F-16V Block 70 fighter jets ordered in 2019 arrived in Taiwan on Friday after months of delays. Published October 2, 2026. Defense News reports that French Air Force plans loyal wingman flight in 2028 in sovereign AI push. The French Air Force plans to fly crewed fighter jets in collaboration with AI-powered combat drones in 2028, under project Hypairion. Published October 2, 2026. Breaking Defense reports that Navy, Raytheon ink $24.4B deal for SM-6 ‘acceleration’. The deal covers at least five-years of production for an undisclosed number of missiles. Published October 2, 2026. SpaceX. Ars Technica reports that Rocket Report: SpaceX completes launch triple-header; Rocket Lab nets big contract. Blue Origin seeks FAA approval for up to 50 New Glenn launches and 50 booster landings per year. Published October 2, 2026. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that SpaceX launches 13th long-duration astronaut crew to International Space Station. CAPE CANAVERAL, Florida >> A SpaceX rocket lifted off from Florida on Thursday with a crew of two U.S. astronauts, a Canadian astronaut and a Russian cosmonaut headed to the International Space Station for a science mission devoted to human health and performance in orbit. Published October 2, 2026. Spaceflight Now reports that Falcon Heavy flies its first mission for U.S. spy satellite agency. The 14th Falcon Heavy rocket is scheduled to blast off on a clandestine mission from Launch Complex 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center at 11:54 p.m. EDT (0354 UTC). Published October 1, 2026. Hawaii. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that Hawaii Supreme Court upholds Maui wildfire attorney fee caps. The Hawaii Supreme Court has rejected an appeal that was holding up initial payments to Maui wildfire disaster victims. Published October 2, 2026. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that 5 Questions: Judith Mills Wong, League of Women Voters of Hawaii president. What are your organization’s priorities and concerns in this election year? Published October 2, 2026. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that Letter: Republicans must vote out Trump sycophants. Will millions of Donald Trump supporters vote Republican in the midterm elections to continue the carnage — economic, political, judicial, diplomatic, medical and constitutional? Published October 2, 2026. the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reports that Letter: Be cautious, but keep AI development moving. U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders wants Washington to hit the brakes on advanced artificial intelligence, warning of lost jobs and potentially catastrophic consequences. His concerns deserve debate. However, imagine if government had stopped development of the automobile because the Model T lacked seat belts, airbags or today’s safety technology. We developed automobiles — and improved safety along the way. Published October 2, 2026. Honolulu Civil Beat reports that South Maui Growth Plan: More Delays Expected. The county is years overdue in updating its vision for the resource-stretched area. Published October 2, 2026. The claims in this desk are the publisher's. Tech and chips. GitHub reports that New fields for SecurityAdvisory GraphQL API. You can now read more of the GitHub Advisory Database directly from the GraphQL API without falling back to the REST API. The SecurityAdvisory object gained five new fields: cveId:… The post New fields for SecurityAdvisory GraphQL API appeared first on The GitHub Blog . Published October 2, 2026. GitHub reports that Confidential comments on repository security advisories. You can now post confidential comments on repository security advisories. Confidential comments are visible only to people with write access to the repository, so you can discuss a report with… The post Confidential comments on repository security advisories appeared first on The GitHub Blog . Published October 2, 2026. NVIDIA reports that NVIDIA DGX Spark 64GB Gives Developers More Ways to Build and Scale Local AI. Local AI is becoming more useful by the token. As AI agents move from experiments into everyday development, increasingly capable open models are shrinking to fit on more devices, giving builders more to run locally. Coming this month, NVIDIA DGX Spark will be available with 64GB of unified memory from top manufacturer partners — Acer, […] Published October 2, 2026. Cloudflare reports that 8 major updates to Cloudflare Observability. Cloudflare is launching eight major updates that bring logs, traces, analytics, alerts, dashboards, querying, and telemetry export into one observability platform, with simpler and more predictable pricing. Published October 2, 2026. the BBC reports that OpenAI fires workers for 'mishandling sensitive information'. The former employees were investigated for sharing data with an outside AI evaluation group. Published October 2, 2026. ABC News Australia reports that Rogue OpenAI agent accessed second NSW government website. The rogue AI agent entered a National Parks and Wildlife Service web application containing publicly available historical information and data on fires. Published October 2, 2026. NVIDIA reports that How NVIDIA GPUs Help Accelerate OpenAI’s GPT-6 Astra Ultrafast. GPT-6 Astra Ultrafast, running on NVIDIA Blackwell GPUs, is available now in the OpenAI API and to eligible ChatGPT Work and Codex users. Accelerated by inference optimizations through OpenAI’s models that tap into the capabilities of the NVIDIA Blackwell architecture, Ultrafast offers up to 8x faster token generation than the Astra Standard mode. For developers, […] Published October 1, 2026. WIRED reports that Trump’s Crazy AI Rebrand Was a Loyalty Test for Tech Execs—and It Worked. For years these billionaires gushed obsessively about AI. But they meekly went along when Trump cancelled the term. Published October 2, 2026. World. the BBC reports that Spanish PM Sánchez loses key housing crisis vote after eviction of woman, 87. The defeat raises pressure on Sánchez to call a snap election, after a series of scandals affecting his party and allies. Published October 2, 2026. the BBC reports that Intensified Russian strikes are tearing Kyiv apart, warns mayor. Vitaliy Klitschko says Ukraine's capital is in a "very dramatic situation" as Russia is hits critical infrastructure. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that Spain’s parliament rejects gov’t housing decrees amid mass protests. Both decrees to tackle housing affordability crisis shot down as critics say measures would tighten the housing market. Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that More celebrities are embracing grey hair. For other women, it can come at a cost. Olivia Colman and Lisa Bonet are among the stars going silver – but workplace ageism means many women still fear ditching the dye To dye, or not to dye. That is the decision many people, particularly women, face when their hair starts to grey. This week Olivia Colman joined the growing ranks of women embracing grey hair and ditching the dye. Appearing at Zurich film festival, Colman had swapped her dark signature pixie cut for a grey, curly mane swept to one side. Continue reading... Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that ‘The enemy is tearing our city apart’: terror in Kyiv as Russia ramps up attacks. Mayor Vitali Klitschko says Kyivans can no longer pretend it is ‘peacetime’ amid strikes on school, hospital and bridge Europe live – latest updates Valeriya Tkachenko was dropping her son off at school in central Kyiv when the air raid alert sounded. Staff hurried the children and parents into the shelter, where the frightened lawyer spent the next two hours with her son. “I’m scared to death all day about what could happen to my son,” she said as she emerged from the shelter, already late for work. Continue reading... Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that India’s Cockroach movement launches new protests over changes to voter roll. Thousands gather in Mumbai with heavy police presence as concerns mount that millions will be denied voting rights India’s youth-led Cockroach movement kicked off more nationwide protests on Friday as thousands of people gathered in Mumbai, amid mounting concerns that millions of citizens are being unfairly stripped of their vote. The movement, which calls itself the Cockroach Janta party (CJP) and has massive support among the country’s gen Zs, returned to the streets to demand the resignation of the chief election commissioner, Gyanesh Kumar. Continue reading... Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Cloaked in anonymity, Israeli soldiers describe mass civilian killings in 'NAZA'. NAZA is an acronym for nezek agavi , Hebrew for "collateral damage." It refers to the number of civilian casualties the Israeli military deems acceptable. The documentary is made by Israeli filmmakers. Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that Trump vs Europe as US presses for release of emergency diesel stocks. Europe's leaders are mulling proposals to respond to Trump's diesel demands. Published October 2, 2026. The claims in this desk are the publisher's. Mainland weather. the National Hurricane Center reports that There are no tropical cyclones at this time.. No tropical cyclones as of Fri, 02 Oct 2026 15:40:07 GMT Published October 3, 2026. the National Hurricane Center reports that Hurricane Rachel Forecast Discussion Number 22. Issued at 800 AM MST Fri Oct 02 2026 000 WTPZ43 KNHC 021451 TCDEP3 Hurricane Rachel Discussion Number 22 NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL EP182026 800 AM MST Fri Oct 02 2026 Rachel's inner core looks slightly less impressive on satellite imagery than it did 6 to 12 hours ago. The eyewall is not very tight and compact, with areas of dry air intrusion possibly affecting the eyewall. The latest TAFB current intensity estimate is 5.5/102 kt, but the final-T number is 4.5/77 kt. Objective intensity estimates from UW-CIMSS have been ranging from 80-95 kt. The initial intensity is lowered to 95 kt, which is 5 kt lower than the previous NHC advisory. The cyclone is still moving slowly westward Published October 2, 2026. the National Hurricane Center reports that Hurricane Rachel Wind Speed Probabilities Number 22. Issued at 1500 UTC FRI OCT 02 2026 076 FOPZ13 KNHC 021450 PWSEP3 HURRICANE RACHEL WIND SPEED PROBABILITIES NUMBER 22 NWS NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER MIAMI FL EP182026 1500 UTC FRI OCT 02 2026 AT 1500Z THE CENTER OF HURRICANE RACHEL WAS LOCATED NEAR LATITUDE 19.3 NORTH...LONGITUDE 110.8 WEST WITH MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS NEAR 95 KTS...110 MPH...175 KM/H. Z INDICATES COORDINATED UNIVERSAL TIME (GREENWICH) PACIFIC DAYLIGHT TIME (PDT)...SUBTRACT 7 HOURS FROM Z TIME HAWAIIAN STANDARD TIME (HST)...SUBTRACT 10 HOURS FROM Z TIME WIND SPEED PROBABILITY TABLE FOR SPECIFIC LOCATIONS CHANCES OF SUSTAINED (1-MINUTE AVERAGE) WIND SPEEDS OF AT LEAST ...34 KT (39 MPH... 63 KM/H)... ...50 KT (58 MPH... 93 KM/H) Published October 2, 2026. the National Hurricane Center reports that Hurricane Rachel Graphics. Wind Speed Probabilities last updated Fri, 02 Oct 2026 15:28:31 GMT Published October 2, 2026. Mainland politics. the Department of Justice reports that Final Two Defendants Sentenced in Interstate Auto Theft Conspiracy. Published October 2, 2026. the Department of Justice reports that Mequon Doctor Sentenced to Federal Prison for Unlawful Prescribing. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that San Francisco's car crime has plunged. How much credit does Flock deserve?. San Francisco leaders say AI-powered cameras helped drive a dramatic decline in car crime. We examine the evidence — and whether the city can keep its high-tech dragnet without sacrificing civil liberties. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Failed 'torturous' execution attempt on Christa Pike reignites death penalty debate. The botched execution in Tennessee of Christa Pike, who survived despite being subject to two doses of lethal injection on Wednesday, has reignited furious debate about the death penalty in the U.S. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Who uttered the phrase 'the ideological clowns are out' this week? The quiz knows. Plus, how well do you know your pandas and fat bears? Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that He was banned by betting sites, and filed for bankruptcy. Then he relapsed on Kalshi. The dark side of the prediction market boom is becoming more clear: Experts say the sites have become go-to outlets for gambling addicts to relapse as the companies avoid state consumer protections. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that The U.S. Senate is up for grabs. Can this Ohio Democrat win back working class votes?. After 32 years in Congress, Ohio's Sherrod Brown lost his Senate seat in 2024 as many working class voters turned out for Trump. Now Brown is counting on union voters to send him back to Washington. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Morning news brief. September jobs report to give an update on the market, Tennessee governor halts executions after woman survives attempt, N.Y. attorney general appointed as special prosecutor in Cornell rape case. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Car crimes in San Francisco have dropped. The city says Flock cameras have helped. Car crimes have plunged in San Francisco over the last four years. The city credits, in part, Flock cameras. We investigate the claim. Published October 2, 2026. NPR reports that Some school districts switch to electric buses as diesel prices soar. School districts that drive long distances are navigating record high diesel prices in different ways. Some have transitioned to electric or propane buses to ease the pinch. Published October 2, 2026. the Federal Register reports that Antidumping or Countervailing Duty Order, Finding, or Suspended Investigation; Opportunity To Request Administrative Review and Join Annual Inquiry Service List; Note Regarding Format of Review Requests. Published October 2, 2026. The claims in this desk are the publisher's. Science. the National Science Foundation reports that MPS Chemistry Quarterly Office Hours. Nov 13 2026 3:00PM to Nov 13 2026 4:00PM EST The U.S. National Science Foundation Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences (NSF MPS) supports multiple research programs in chemistry. These programs support a national research community engaged in fundamental discovery, invention and innovation in the chemical sciences. NSF MPS holds quarterly office hours to share information with chemistry researchers, administrators and others in the U.S. chemistry research community. MPS leaders and staff will discuss funding … More at https://www.nsf.gov/events/mps-chemistry-quarterly-office-hours Published November 13, 2026. the National Science Foundation reports that NSF MPS Mathematical Sciences Informational Webinar. Oct 7 2026 2:00PM to Oct 7 2026 3:00PM EDT The U.S. National Science Foundation Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences (NSF MPS) supports multiple research programs at the frontiers of discovery in theoretical and applied mathematical sciences. NSF MPS will host an informational webinar for the U.S. mathematical sciences research community. All members of the mathematics research community are encouraged to attend. MPS leaders and staff will discuss NSF funding opportunities supporting the mathematical … More at https://www.nsf.gov/events/nsf-mps-mathematical-sciences-informational-webinar Published October 7, 2026. Phys.org reports that Astronauts arrive at International Space Station on the quickest US express flight yet. Four astronauts pulled up at the International Space Station on Thursday after launching on an eight-hour express that set a U.S. speed record. Published October 2, 2026. Nature reports that How to respond to hate speech without fuelling it further. Published October 2, 2026. Nature reports that Stunning fossil shows dinosaurs’ distinctive path to flight. Published October 2, 2026. Nature reports that Von Neumann’s party. Published October 2, 2026. Nature reports that Can we have class outside? Seven tips to breeze through outdoor lectures. Published October 2, 2026. Nature reports that Nature has rights — it is time the world recognized them. Published October 2, 2026. Nature reports that Prozac use for childhood depression skewed by single flawed medical trial. Published October 2, 2026. the National Institute of Standards and Technology reports that 2026 NIST Photometry Short Course. The NIST Photometry Short Course is a 4-day course held at NIST Gaithersburg, Maryland. The course consists of lectures given by NIST scientists and hands-on laboratory experience measuring illuminance, total luminous flux, colorimetry, and luminous Published November 3, 2026. Universities. The Guardian reports that Woman in alleged Cornell gang-rape case was ‘failed’ by system, New York governor says. Kathy Hochul briefs journalists with state attorney general Letitia James, who will be taking over the entire case Letitia James appointed special prosecutor in alleged gang-rape at Cornell Kathy Hochul, New York’s governor, said on Friday that she would “ensure” that all the facts of the alleged gang-rape in a fraternity house at Cornell University “are brought into light” while harshly criticizing the institution for how they handled the 2024 case. Hochul, a Democrat, said the woman in the case, was “failed” by people obligated to protect her, including the police and the county prosecutor. Continue reading... Published October 2, 2026. MIT News reports that The next generation’s guide to the new space economy. An industry report published by students in an MIT aerospace entrepreneurship class lays out guidance for aspiring space leaders and investors. Published October 2, 2026. The Guardian reports that Hochul to address Cornell University case after appointing Leticia James to investigate alleged gang-rape – US politics live. Kathy Hochul says she no longer trusts the local district attorney’s ability to handle the case, which has restarted a national conversation about sexual assault on college campuses Sign up for the Breaking News US email Donald Trump will begin his day in Washington after spending Thursday campaigning in Durant, Oklahoma. He’ll travel to Mobile, Alabama at 12.30pm ET today for a campaign rally. It’s part of the president’s 32-day blitz to juice support for Republicans ahead of the November midterm elections. He won Mobile county by almost 17 points in the 2024 presidential election. Despite the president initially saying that he would focus his attention on competitive districts, in recent d Published October 2, 2026. the BBC reports that Cornell students gather to voice anger over alleged gang rape. Students tell the BBC that the tension on campus has become palpable since allegations from 2024 resurfaced. Published October 2, 2026. Also in the news. GitHub reports that Repository security advisory comments API in public preview. You can now read, add, and edit comments on repository security advisories using the REST API, including advisories created from private vulnerability reports. Until now, the discussion on an advisory… The post Repository security advisory comments API in public preview appeared first on The GitHub Blog . Published October 2, 2026. the European Space Agency reports that A guide to blood draws in orbit. Video: 00:01:52 This video was published on social media by ESA astronaut Sophie Adenot with the following caption: Just another morning in space… this one starting with a blood draw! I was so proud to get it right on the first try! ☺️ As part of NASA’s Standard Measures and other physiology experiments, we regularly collect blood and other samples to help scientists understand how our bodies adapt to spaceflight. We centrifuge and freeze the samples on board, preserving them until they can be analysed back on Earth. I’ll do one last blood draw on the morning we undock! -- Un matin de plus dans l’espace… mais qui commence par une prise de sang ! Tellement fière d’avoir réussi du premier coup Published October 2, 2026. Al Jazeera reports that New aircraft carrier, 10,000 US troops: Is the Iran war about to escalate?. By the end of November, three US aircraft carriers and two amphibious landing groups will be positioned near Iran. Published October 2, 2026. NASA reports that Rains Swamp the Gandak River. After days of torrential rain, the river rose to record-breaking levels in parts of Nepal and India. Published October 2, 2026. That is the news update.
